Hi, I'm Rod Light,
I'm a senior Solutions Engineer and Practice Lead for Alteryx,
the leader in self-service data analytics.
In this course, I will be showing you the concepts and
practices related to segmentation and clustering.
Many times, as a business analyst,
you may be asked to provide answers for
specific entities in the business such as stores or customers.
This can turn into an insurmountable task purely because of the size of the business.
For example, a retail business can have hundreds or even thousands of stores.
Creating models to determine what is
the best product mix in each of these could be daunting.
Another example can be related to marketing.
It would be great if you could send out flyers or emails individually to each of
your customers that are customized considering each customer's needs or interests,
but having thousands or millions of customers can make this next to impossible.
Because it's much easier to make decisions when working with
a smaller set of entities rather than have to work with a larger one,
one approach to deal with this kind of problem is by
dividing the entities into smaller set of objects called segments.
In this lesson, we will cover some general concepts around
segmenting and a technique used to create the segments called clustering.
I will show the difference between clustering and
grouping which is what many businesses do.
We will cover at a high level the concepts used to create the clusters and I will give
a few examples of how clustering is used in different industries. Let's get started.